[MUSIC]
We have done so
far a detailed study of vertex cover.
But that's not really what
this course is about.
It's not so
much about solving specific problems
as it is about developing techniques.
Teaching how to solve problems,
teaching a methodology.
So, let us review what we have learned so
far in that respect.
What is the method that we applied
in the case of our desk cover?
Designing an algorithm.
We have seen on this example
how to do it in three steps.
First, find a integer
program to model the problem.
Second solve a linear
programming relaxation.
Third round the solution
to get an integer solution.
That is a standard algorithm technique
used for approximation algorithms.
We will see this over and
over again in this course and
it is good to remember this
as a standard technique.
How do we analyze such an algorithm?
There are three things
that need to be done.
First, when you try to
get such an algorithm,
you need to verify that
it really is correct.
That the output really
satisfies the conditions.
Second, you must verify that it
really is efficient, where efficient
in this class means polynomial time,
the run time must be polynomial.
Some people are not so happy with such
a definition, but we are theoreticians.
We want polynomial run time,
that's our definition of efficiency.
Third and
most importantly how good is the solution?
You must analyze the value
of the output solution and
show that it is within a certain
factor of the optimal value.
Here the fact that we
showed was a factor of two.
Soon, we will see an algorithm where
the factor is one plus epsilon.
Sometimes it can be login
sometimes it could much worse.
Finally, for this kind of algorithm,
there's a particular method to try to
analyze the quality of the output.
The method is to go as an intermediate
step through the LP value.
You must, on the one hand,
relate the output to the LP value.
On the other hand relate
OPT to the LP value and
then it only remains to
combine the two things.
The method for the analysis of
the quality of a solution is
focus on the value of the linear program.
Now let me say a few more
words about vertex cover.
We could say many more things about
the vertex cover problem, but
let me just address the question of
the quality of approximation, this factor.
We have a two approximation.
How much better could we hope to
get as an approximation algorithm?
Could we solve vertex cover optimally?
No.
Dick Karp in 1972 proved that vertex cover
is NP-complete.
This was one of his original NP-complete
problems in his famous paper where
he listed a few problems from diverse
areas and proved them all NP-complete.
Then, can we hope to get something
arbitrarily close to one?
An approximation that is one
plus epsilon for every epsilon?
An approximation scheme, as we call it.
No, impossible.
Why?
Christos Papadimitriu.
Mihalis Yanakakis.
In 1991, they proved that
you cannot get better than
some very small number,
something like 1.001 of the optimal value.
Getting bellow that is anti-complete.
So if p is different from np,
of course, you cannot hope to
get arbitrarily close to one.
But that number is really quite small.
Can't you prove something
better than this?
Yes.
In the early 2000s, Yacreet Dinur and
Moolie Safra showed that you
cannot hope to get better
than 1.36 approximation for
vertex cover if p is different from np.
To date, it's the best result,
assuming p is different from
np with no other assumptions.
But, we also have another result,
a conditional result.
If a certain conjecture is true,
the unique games conjecture,
then our two approximation
algorithm is optimal.
It is impossible to get in polynomial
time something that would be
strictly less than two,
a 1.999 approximation.
This is a result by Subash Khot and
Regev from 2003.
So what can we say?
Vertex cover is hard in the worst case.
Finally, to conclude this part of
the class, I would say that we have so
far designed a method for
approximation algorithms,
applied it to vertex cover, and
proved that it's a two approximation.
On the way to doing that, we have
had a little fun with vertex cover.
I could say many more things about it,
but this is enough for
this particular problem.